welcome to my kitchen where we shall
stretch this is like a really fast
stretching routine for most of the body
the focus is going to be on stretches
that i think pretty much everybody needs
so i think anybody can relate to this
i'll be showing some easier versions and
some harder versions just stick with the
version that feels best for you we're
going to hold for around 30 seconds of
post sometimes a little less sometimes a
little more doesn't matter too much and
then we'll be on our way join me if you
like stretch number one hip flexor
stretch here we go just get yourself in
a lunge position one leg behind you toe
pointed out and all you're going to do
is push your hips down toward the floor
and hold this right here your goal is to
feel it right here
and begin breathing deeply the entire
time you stretch
you want to stay relaxed and you want to
stay focused you want to hold it with
intensity you should feel the stretch
but it should not be painful breathing
deeply
nearing that halfway mark if you want to
deepen the stretch you can reach back
and grab your leg
continue holding
this is one of my favorite stretches by
the way and i feel like the hip flexor
is just one of those muscles that we all
really need to stretch because we sit
down all the time and let it go and
we'll switch to the other side
other lunge push those hips down toward
the floor
focusing again on that hip flexor again
breathing deeply as you go
the reason why our hip flexors are
pretty much tight all the time
is because
we drive we sit at desks we come home
and then we sit on the couch
we basically just sit
a lot so these hip flexors tend to get
pretty tight halfway through go ahead
and lift that back leg up if you'd like
but if this variation right here is too
painful just stick with the first one
letting as much tension as possible
leave the body
and go ahead and let that leg relax down
go ahead and stand up we're going to do
elephant walks so what you're going to
do is just stand and reach toward the
ground if you cannot reach the ground
that's okay
keep your hands somewhere up here you're
just gonna bend both your knees and
you're gonna go straighten one of them
all the way out and then bend
straighten the other one out
and bend at the level that you can you
can try it like this if you'd like
or if you're flexible enough you can go
palms on the ground
wherever
you feel best is where you're gonna do
it and you keep alternating
this is a mix between a nerve floss
and a hamstring stretch
great job we're going to switch it up
both at the same time
stretch them out hold and relax and
again stretch them out
[Music]
and relax and do it one more time
challenge yourself hold it five
four
three
two
one relax out of it go ahead and have a
seat again and we're gonna do pancake
stretch
um so all you're gonna do is sit on the
floor
open your legs as wide as you can get
them um it doesn't even matter if
they're like this close but your goal is
just to reach forward
if you have trouble reaching forward
like this you can also lean up against a
wall
and flatten your back and you'll feel
that stretch the same way so go to
wherever you feel the stretch
and just hold here we go breathing
deeply
it may also help you to flex your quads
to get these knees all the way straight
holding
i also like to shift side to side
kind of dig into that muscle a little
bit
you want to be intense but not painful
like i said earlier
slowly as time progresses sink a little
bit closer to the floor if you can
this is great for the hamstrings and the
adductor muscles
if you're trying to do your middle
splits this is probably the best stretch
because if you think about it at the
highest level your pancake stretch in
your splits are the same stretch
go ahead and lift yourself out of it
shake those legs out
now this next one is actually my
favorite stretch it is the figure four
stretch
all you're going to do is lay down on
the ground just like so
cross one ankle over the knee and if you
already feel the stretch down there just
hold it right there but if you'd like to
deepen it you're just going to grab this
leg and hold it right here now instead
of pulling it all the way into your
chest like this what you're going to do
is hold the tension and focus on
bringing your tailbone
down to the floor holding and breathing
this is a piriformis stretch or figure
four stretch it's great for your low
back if you have sciatica this is a must
it's also great for these hips
if you're focusing on getting your deep
squat this will also help with that
and five
four
three
two
one great job going switch sides other
ankle over again
leave it here if you feel that stretch
but if not go ahead and
grab and hold
breathing deeply
you may notice that one side is tighter
than the other that's totally normal
if you'd like to fix that don't pull it
tighter on the tighter side just hold it
for around 10 seconds longer after the
video is over
and five
four
three
two
one release those legs go and shake
those legs out a little bit let that
tension release
and go and sit your way up next up we're
doing a lat stretch all you're going to
do is go into all fours just like this
and you're going to sink your chest down
toward the floor and you may have to
lift your head up out of the way
and for some people it feels more
comfortable to have the thumbs up toward
the ceiling
um i in fact recommend this variation so
do it like that
sink the chest down toward the floor and
feel that stretch the goal is to feel it
at the back side of that armpit
breathing deeply
this is another area of the body
that is almost always tight because we
almost never use our lats in a full
range of motion in everyday life
we're about halfway through i'm going to
do a different variation clasp the hands
lift them up above the head
sink down further toward the floor if
you can
five
four
three
two
one go ahead and lift yourself up out of
that stretch
and great job
this is one of my favorite stretch we're
going to do a sideways stretch for the
spine lift one arm up and stretch it
over to the side just like this and hold
now make sure that you're not lifting up
one side of your hips you want both of
your hip bones down on the ground
and just pause there and feel that
stretch
for some people this is very intense
for some people it's kind of easy it's
so-so
as the time progresses you may find that
you'll be able to sink a little bit
deeper into it without your hip lifting
only go as far as you can
five
four
three
two
one lift yourself up other side
stretch up and over again don't let the
hip lift up keep it down on the ground
and feel that stretch
you almost want to think of it arcing
from your pinky all the way down to that
sitting bone or your hip bone over there
letting that stretch deepen as the time
progresses
and five
four
three
two
one lift yourself up i have one more
bonus stretch left i always do this as
an active stretch and twist to the side
and hold
three
two
one and back and other side hold
three
two one and back and just sway a little
side to side
let that tension release from the body
and you should be ready to go if you're
really focused on gaining flexibility i
actually recommend holding each one of
those stretches for a total of a minute
and 30 seconds to two minutes but doing
each stretch for two minutes is really
boring don't recommend that
so i break it up into sets
just do that whole routine three times
that's the easiest way to get it done
let me know what you think comment
suggestions on what else you'd like to
see and of course stay flexy